# YeeChain Address Design

When designing the address of account & smart contract, several basic options below need to be taken into consideration carefully: 

> - Whether the address should include checksum?
> - Whether the address should include the network id?
> - Is the base58 operation really meaningful and beneficial?
> - Case sensitive or not?

A [Bitcoin address](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Address) not only include the network id but also distinguish by the address type such as P2PKH, P2SH. 
It also has 4 bytes checksum generated by double sha256. The final address is a base58 encoded case sensitive string.

In contrast, Ethereum address simply take the last 20 bytes of the Keccak-256 hash of the public key. No network id, no checksum, HEX string without base58,
and is case insensitive previously. Until [EIP55 - Yet another cool checksum address encoding](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/55) be adopted, the partially uppercase version has a checksum to verify the address.

YeeChain has it's own end-to-end security principle, We prefer that account address should include network id and checksum, but without base58 encoding and is case insensitive.

## Account Address

Similar to Bitcoin and Ethereum, Elliptic curve algorithm is adopted as YeeChain's basic encryption algorithm for create accounts. The address is derived from **public key**, which is in turn derived from the **private key** that encrypted with user's **passphrase**.

The specific calculation formula is as follows:
```
1.  content = ripemd160(sha3_256(public key))
    length: 20 bytes
                            +----------------+-------------+
2.  checksum = sha3_256(    |   network id   +   content   |   )[:4]
                            +----------------+-------------+
    length: 4 bytes

                        +----------------+-------------+------------+
3.  address = hex(      |   network id   |   content   |  checksum  | ）
                        +----------------+-------------+------------+
    length: 50 chars
```


## Smart Contract Address

TBD
